So we're looking a bit at possession now, no?
And how we express that in Spanish.
Now in English we use possessive words my your his her much more.
than we do in Spanish.
So it's something we want to look out for.
We already saw an example actually.
For example how we would say I responded him the male rather than I responded to his mail.
Another example would be how we refer to body parts in Spanish.
So you don't say in Spanish, for example, my leg hurts.
You say it hurts me the leg.
Doler doler is to hurt.
How would you say firstly it hurts me from doler?
It hurts me
Me dolo It hurts me Lo Me I want you to divide the sentence up and to take control of it No guessing It hurts me
Dole.
Good.
It would be dole, but the all splits.
So this is an error that's not a problem.
You thought it through and you go to dole.
But the all splits here
So me duele.
Me duele.
Good.
So you don't say in Spanish, my leg hurts.
Mi pierna duele.
You don't say that.
You say it hurts me, the leg.
It hurts me the leg.
So leg is pierna.
How would you say my leg hurts?
Me duele la pierna.
Good.
Meduele la pierna.
If you want to say my leg doesn't hurt anymore, you can just use more for any more.
So what was more again?
Mass.
So my leg doesn't hurt anymore
Nometuele La Pierna Mas.
Good.
Now the noun pain is dolor, dolor
Dolor.
If you want to say I have a headache, you can just say I have pain of head.
Dolor de cabeza.
So how would that be?
I have a headache.
Tengo dolor de cabeza.
Good.
I had, I was having, pain of head, so the line in the past
Tenía dolor de cabeza.
Good.
And of course we can also say me duele la cabeza or me dolía la cabeza.
This would be another way of saying it.
So just as we can say dolor de cabeza to say headache, the ache of the head, if we want to say Jose's house
Maria's house.
In Spanish we would say the house of Maria, the house of Jose.
So how would you say the house of Jose?
Jose's house.
La casa de Jose.
So how would you say we are going to Jose's house
Vamos a la casa de Jose.
Good.
What if you wanted to say we are going to Maria's party?
We are going to Maria's party.
Vamos a la fiesta That's correct Vamos a la Fiesta de Maria Yes Vamos a la Fiesta de Maria Very good What was nobody
Nadie.
And nobody else or nobody more?
Nadia must.
Good.
I didn't speak with anybody else in Maria's party.
I didn't speak with anyone else in Maria's party.
I only spoke with you.
So let's start from the beginning.
I didn't speak
No apple with anybody else con nadie mas in Maria's party
And in la fiesta de Maria?
Good.
No hablé con nadie más in la fiesta de Maria.
I only spoke with you.
Now only or just
that we say a lot in English, I just spoke with you, I only spoke with you.
In Spanish is solo, solo.
So I only spoke with you, speaking informally.
Aplaste.
I only spoke with you.
Don't let it blend together
Good.
Or more naturally might be solo hable contigo.
But solo at the end there it's fine, it just sounds more emphatic.
You might want to be emphatic here.
No hablé con nadie más in la fiesta de María.
Solo hablé contigo.
Hablé solo contigo.
Hablé contigo solo.